content/api/N_UltimateXR_Manipulation.md, before:

# UltimateXR.Manipulation Namespace

## Classes
&nbsp;<table><tr><th></th><th>Class</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrApplyConstraintsEventArgs">UxrApplyConstraintsEventArgs</a></td><td>
Event arguments for <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_ConstraintsApplying">ConstraintsApplying</a> and <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_ConstraintsApplied">ConstraintsApplied</a>.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a></td><td>
Component that, added to a GameObject, will enable the object to be grabbed by the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a> components found in the hands of an <a href="T_UltimateXR_Avatar_UxrAvatar">UxrAvatar</a>. Some of the main features of grabbable objects are:
&nbsp;<ul><li>Manipulation is handled automatically by the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager">UxrGrabManager</a>. There is no special requirement to enable it in a scene, the grab manager will be available as soon as it is invoked.</li><li>Grabbable objects can be grabbed, released and placed. Releasing an object means dropping it mid-air, while placing it is releasing an object close enough to a compatible <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor">UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor</a>.</li><li>Objects can be grabbed from different grab points.</li><li>Additionally, grab points can be expanded using <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointShape">UxrGrabPointShape</a> components opening up more complex manipulation by describing grab points as composite shapes.</li><li>Although all avatars that have <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a> components are able to interact with <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> objects, it is possible to register the way specific avatars will interact with it. This allows to specify snap points and poses for different avatars and make sure that all have precise and realistic manipulation.</li><li>The Hand Pose Editor can create poses that are used by <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> in order to tell how objects are grabbed. The inspector window will preview grab poses and enable editing them.</li><li>Events such as <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Grabbed">Grabbed</a>, <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Released">Released</a> and <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Placed">Placed</a> allow to write logic when a user interacts with the object. Each has pre and post events.</li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_ConstraintsApplying">ConstraintsApplying</a> and <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_ConstraintsApplied">ConstraintsApplied</a> allow to program more complex logic when grabbing objects.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor">UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor</a></td><td>
Component that, added to a GameObject, will enable <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> objects to be placed on it. Some of the main features of grabbable object anchors are:
&nbsp;<ul><li>Placement mechanics are handled automatically by the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager">UxrGrabManager</a>. There is no special requirement to set it up in a scene, the grab manager will be available as soon as it is required.</li><li>Compatible tags allow to model which objects can be placed on the anchor. If the list is empty, the anchor is compatible with all other <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> that do not have a tag.</li><li>Events such as <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_Placed">Placed</a> and <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_Removed">Removed</a> allow to write logic when a user interacts with the anchor. Each one has pre and post events.</li><li><a href="P_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_ActivateOnCompatibleNear">ActivateOnCompatibleNear</a>, <a href="P_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_ActivateOnCompatibleNotNear">ActivateOnCompatibleNotNear</a>, <a href="P_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_ActivateOnHandNearAndGrabbable">ActivateOnHandNearAndGrabbable</a>, <a href="P_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_ActivateOnPlaced">ActivateOnPlaced</a> and <a href="P_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_ActivateOnEmpty">ActivateOnEmpty</a> can be used to activate/deactivate objects on manipulation events. They can be assigned during edit-time using the inspector and also at runtime.</li><li><a href="M_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_AddPlacingValidator">AddPlacingValidator(Func(UxrGrabbableObject, Boolean))</a> and <a href="M_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_RemovePlacingValidator">RemovePlacingValidator(Func(UxrGrabbableObject, Boolean))</a> can be used to model complex compatibility behaviour that changes at runtime.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectPreviewMesh">UxrGrabbableObjectPreviewMesh</a></td><td>
Component used internally by the editor. They are added to keep track of grab pose preview meshes and delete them when the preview is no longer needed.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectSnapTransform">UxrGrabbableObjectSnapTransform</a></td><td>
Component used internally by the editor. It renders grab pose meshes in the Scene Window when a grab point's snap transform is selected and moved/rotated. It also allows to modify the blend factor in blend poses and gives access to some handy repositioning tools.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a></td><td>

Component that added to an <a href="T_UltimateXR_Avatar_UxrAvatar">UxrAvatar</a> allows to interact with <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> entities. Normally there are two per avatar, one on each hand. They are usually added to the hand object since it is the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a> transform where grabbable objects will be snapped to when snapping is used.

By default, the grabber transform is also used to compute distances to grabbable objects. Additional proximity transforms can be specified on the grabber so that grabbable objects can choose which one is used. This can be useful in some scenarios: In an aircraft cockpit most knobs and buttons will prefer the distance from the tip of the index finger, while bigger objects will prefer from the palm of the hand.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager">UxrGrabManager</a></td><td>
Manager that takes care of updating all the manipulation mechanics. The manipulation system handles three main types of entities:
&nbsp;<ul><li><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a>: Components usually assigned to each hand of an <a href="T_UltimateXR_Avatar_UxrAvatar">UxrAvatar</a> and that are able to grab objects</li><li><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a>: Objects that can be grabbed</li><li><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor">UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor</a>: Anchors where grabbable objects can be placed</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointIndex">UxrGrabPointIndex</a></td><td>
Enables nicer formatting of the grab point this shape is bound to in the editor. It will show strings like Main, Additional 0, Additional 1... etc. because there is an CustomPropertyDrawer for this class (see GrabPointIndexDrawer).</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointInfo">UxrGrabPointInfo</a></td><td>
Defines a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> grab point. A grab point describes a point of an object which can be grabbed. Objects can have multiple grab points to allow it to be grabbed from different angles. Grab points can be further expanded by using a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointShape">UxrGrabPointShape</a>, which gives flexibility by allowing it to be grabbed around or along an axis passing through that point, for example.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointShape">UxrGrabPointShape</a></td><td>
Base class to create more advanced grips (cylindrical, box...). An <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> enables grabbing an object. A grabPoint inside the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> defines where and how the object will snap to the hand. Additionally, if there is an <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointShape">UxrGrabPointShape</a> based component on the same object, it will "expand" the snapping from a single point to a more complex shape like a an axis, a cylinder, a box... This way an object can be picked up from many different places just by specifying a snap point and some additional properties.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointShapeAxisAngle">UxrGrabPointShapeAxisAngle</a></td><td>
Grab shape used to grab cylindrical objects. The cylinder is described by an axis and a length. It is possible to specify if the object can be grabbed in both directions or a direction only.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGripPoseInfo">UxrGripPoseInfo</a></td><td>
Describes how an object is grabbed. It tells the pose that will be used and how it will be snapped to the hand. The key is stored in the object, ideally we would have Dictionary(key, GripPoseInfo) but since Unity does not serialize Dictionaries we use a List(GripPoseInfo) containing the key (<a href="P_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGripPoseInfo_AvatarPrefabGuid">AvatarPrefabGuid</a>) as well.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrManipulationEventArgs">UxrManipulationEventArgs</a></td><td>

Event parameters for most manipulation events:
<a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager">UxrGrabManager</a>:
&nbsp;<ul><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_GrabTrying">GrabTrying</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectGrabbing">ObjectGrabbing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectGrabbed">ObjectGrabbed</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectReleasing">ObjectReleasing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectReleased">ObjectReleased</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectPlacing">ObjectPlacing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectPlaced">ObjectPlaced</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectRemoving">ObjectRemoving</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectRemoved">ObjectRemoved</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_AnchorRangeEntered">AnchorRangeEntered</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_AnchorRangeLeft">AnchorRangeLeft</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_PlacedObjectRangeEntered">PlacedObjectRangeEntered</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_PlacedObjectRangeLeft">PlacedObjectRangeLeft</a></li></ul>&nbsp;
<a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a>:
&nbsp;<ul><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Grabbing">Grabbing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Grabbed">Grabbed</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Releasing">Releasing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Released">Released</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Placing">Placing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Placed">Placed</a></li></ul>&nbsp;
<a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor">UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor</a>:
&nbsp;<ul><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_Placing">Placing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_Placed">Placed</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_Removing">Removing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_Removed">Removed</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_SmoothPlaceTransitionEnded">SmoothPlaceTransitionEnded</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrManipulationSyncEventArgs">UxrManipulationSyncEventArgs</a></td><td>
Describes an event raised by the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager">UxrGrabManager</a> that can also be played back. This facilitates the manipulation synchronization through network.</td></tr></table>

## Interfaces
&nbsp;<table><tr><th></th><th>Interface</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>![Public interface](media/pubinterface.gif "Public interface")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_IUxrGrabbable">IUxrGrabbable</a></td><td>
Interface for all objects that can be grabbed/manipulated using the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager">UxrGrabManager</a>.</td></tr></table>

## Enumerations
&nbsp;<table><tr><th></th><th>Enumeration</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabMode">UxrGrabMode</a></td><td>
What controller input we need to grab and release.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabProximityMode">UxrGrabProximityMode</a></td><td>
Enumerates how the distance from a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a> to a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> can be computed.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrHandSnapDirection">UxrHandSnapDirection</a></td><td>
Enumerates the different ways snapping can be handled when grabbing an object. For constrained objects, this will always be hand to the object</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrManipulationMode">UxrManipulationMode</a></td><td>
Enumerates the different ways a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> can be manipulated.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrManipulationSyncEventType">UxrManipulationSyncEventType</a></td><td>
Enumerates the different events that can be synced for networking using <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrManipulationSyncEventArgs">UxrManipulationSyncEventArgs</a> .</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrPlacementType">UxrPlacementType</a></td><td>
Enumerates the different ways a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> can transition when being placed on an <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor">UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor</a>.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrPreviewGrabPoses">UxrPreviewGrabPoses</a></td><td>
Flags enumerating the different modes that can be used to preview the grab poses in the editor while an <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> is selected.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrRotationConstraintMode">UxrRotationConstraintMode</a></td><td>
Enumerates the ways a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> rotation can be constrained when being manipulated.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrSnapReference">UxrSnapReference</a></td><td>
Enumerates which transforms can be used to align a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> to a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a></td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrSnapToAnchorMode">UxrSnapToAnchorMode</a></td><td>
Enumerates how a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> can snap to a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor">UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor</a> when being placed on it.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrSnapToHandMode">UxrSnapToHandMode</a></td><td>
Enumerates the ways a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> can snap to a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a>.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrTranslationConstraintMode">UxrTranslationConstraintMode</a></td><td>
Enumerates the ways a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> position can be constrained when being manipulated.</td></tr></table>&nbsp;

Commit message:

Update API documentation with 0.9.1 files

content/api/N_UltimateXR_Manipulation.md, after:

# UltimateXR.Manipulation Namespace

## Classes
&nbsp;<table><tr><th></th><th>Class</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrApplyConstraintsEventArgs">UxrApplyConstraintsEventArgs</a></td><td>
Event arguments for <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_ConstraintsApplying">ConstraintsApplying</a> and <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_ConstraintsApplied">ConstraintsApplied</a>.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a></td><td>
Component that, added to a GameObject, will enable the object to be grabbed by the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a> components found in the hands of an <a href="T_UltimateXR_Avatar_UxrAvatar">UxrAvatar</a>. Some of the main features of grabbable objects are:
&nbsp;<ul><li>Manipulation is handled automatically by the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager">UxrGrabManager</a>. There is no special requirement to enable it in a scene, the grab manager will be available as soon as it is invoked.</li><li>Grabbable objects can be grabbed, released and placed. Releasing an object means dropping it mid-air, while placing it is releasing an object close enough to a compatible <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor">UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor</a>.</li><li>Objects can be grabbed from different grab points.</li><li>Additionally, grab points can be expanded using <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointShape">UxrGrabPointShape</a> components opening up more complex manipulation by describing grab points as composite shapes.</li><li>Although all avatars that have <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a> components are able to interact with <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> objects, it is possible to register the way specific avatars will interact with it. This allows to specify snap points and poses for different avatars and make sure that all have precise and realistic manipulation.</li><li>The Hand Pose Editor can create poses that are used by <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> in order to tell how objects are grabbed. The inspector window will preview grab poses and enable editing them.</li><li>Events such as <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Grabbed">Grabbed</a>, <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Released">Released</a> and <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Placed">Placed</a> allow to write logic when a user interacts with the object. Each has pre and post events.</li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_ConstraintsApplying">ConstraintsApplying</a> and <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_ConstraintsApplied">ConstraintsApplied</a> allow to program more complex logic when grabbing objects.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor">UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor</a></td><td>
Component that, added to a GameObject, will enable <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> objects to be placed on it. Some of the main features of grabbable object anchors are:
&nbsp;<ul><li>Placement mechanics are handled automatically by the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager">UxrGrabManager</a>. There is no special requirement to set it up in a scene, the grab manager will be available as soon as it is required.</li><li>Compatible tags allow to model which objects can be placed on the anchor. If the list is empty, the anchor is compatible with all other <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> that do not have a tag.</li><li>Events such as <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_Placed">Placed</a> and <a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_Removed">Removed</a> allow to write logic when a user interacts with the anchor. Each one has pre and post events.</li><li><a href="P_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_ActivateOnCompatibleNear">ActivateOnCompatibleNear</a>, <a href="P_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_ActivateOnCompatibleNotNear">ActivateOnCompatibleNotNear</a>, <a href="P_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_ActivateOnHandNearAndGrabbable">ActivateOnHandNearAndGrabbable</a>, <a href="P_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_ActivateOnPlaced">ActivateOnPlaced</a> and <a href="P_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_ActivateOnEmpty">ActivateOnEmpty</a> can be used to activate/deactivate objects on manipulation events. They can be assigned during edit-time using the inspector and also at runtime.</li><li><a href="M_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_AddPlacingValidator">AddPlacingValidator(Func(UxrGrabbableObject, Boolean))</a> and <a href="M_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_RemovePlacingValidator">RemovePlacingValidator(Func(UxrGrabbableObject, Boolean))</a> can be used to model complex compatibility behaviour that changes at runtime.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectPreviewMesh">UxrGrabbableObjectPreviewMesh</a></td><td>
Component used internally by the editor. They are added to keep track of grab pose preview meshes and delete them when the preview is no longer needed.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectSnapTransform">UxrGrabbableObjectSnapTransform</a></td><td>
Component used internally by the editor. It renders grab pose meshes in the Scene Window when a grab point's snap transform is selected and moved/rotated. It also allows to modify the blend factor in blend poses and gives access to some handy repositioning tools.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a></td><td>

Component that added to an <a href="T_UltimateXR_Avatar_UxrAvatar">UxrAvatar</a> allows to interact with <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> entities. Normally there are two per avatar, one on each hand. They are usually added to the hand object since it is the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a> transform where grabbable objects will be snapped to when snapping is used.

By default, the grabber transform is also used to compute distances to grabbable objects. Additional proximity transforms can be specified on the grabber so that grabbable objects can choose which one is used. This can be useful in some scenarios: In an aircraft cockpit most knobs and buttons will prefer the distance from the tip of the index finger, while bigger objects will prefer from the palm of the hand.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager">UxrGrabManager</a></td><td>
Manager that takes care of updating all the manipulation mechanics. The manipulation system handles three main types of entities:
&nbsp;<ul><li><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a>: Components usually assigned to each hand of an <a href="T_UltimateXR_Avatar_UxrAvatar">UxrAvatar</a> and that are able to grab objects</li><li><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a>: Objects that can be grabbed</li><li><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor">UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor</a>: Anchors where grabbable objects can be placed</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointIndex">UxrGrabPointIndex</a></td><td>
Enables nicer formatting of the grab point this shape is bound to in the editor. It will show strings like Main, Additional 0, Additional 1... etc. because there is an CustomPropertyDrawer for this class (see GrabPointIndexDrawer).</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointInfo">UxrGrabPointInfo</a></td><td>
Defines a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> grab point. A grab point describes a point of an object which can be grabbed. Objects can have multiple grab points to allow it to be grabbed from different angles. Grab points can be further expanded by using a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointShape">UxrGrabPointShape</a>, which gives flexibility by allowing it to be grabbed around or along an axis passing through that point, for example.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointShape">UxrGrabPointShape</a></td><td>
Base class to create more advanced grips (cylindrical, box...). An <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> enables grabbing an object. A grabPoint inside the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> defines where and how the object will snap to the hand. Additionally, if there is an <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointShape">UxrGrabPointShape</a> based component on the same object, it will "expand" the snapping from a single point to a more complex shape like a an axis, a cylinder, a box... This way an object can be picked up from many different places just by specifying a snap point and some additional properties.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabPointShapeAxisAngle">UxrGrabPointShapeAxisAngle</a></td><td>
Grab shape used to grab cylindrical objects. The cylinder is described by an axis and a length. It is possible to specify if the object can be grabbed in both directions or a direction only.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGripPoseInfo">UxrGripPoseInfo</a></td><td>
Describes how an object is grabbed. It tells the pose that will be used and how it will be snapped to the hand. The key is stored in the object, ideally we would have Dictionary(key, GripPoseInfo) but since Unity does not serialize Dictionaries we use a List(GripPoseInfo) containing the key (<a href="P_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGripPoseInfo_AvatarPrefabGuid">AvatarPrefabGuid</a>) as well.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrManipulationEventArgs">UxrManipulationEventArgs</a></td><td>

Event parameters for most manipulation events:
<a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager">UxrGrabManager</a>:
&nbsp;<ul><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_GrabTrying">GrabTrying</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectGrabbing">ObjectGrabbing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectGrabbed">ObjectGrabbed</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectReleasing">ObjectReleasing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectReleased">ObjectReleased</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectPlacing">ObjectPlacing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectPlaced">ObjectPlaced</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectRemoving">ObjectRemoving</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_ObjectRemoved">ObjectRemoved</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_AnchorRangeEntered">AnchorRangeEntered</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_AnchorRangeLeft">AnchorRangeLeft</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_PlacedObjectRangeEntered">PlacedObjectRangeEntered</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager_PlacedObjectRangeLeft">PlacedObjectRangeLeft</a></li></ul>&nbsp;
<a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a>:
&nbsp;<ul><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Grabbing">Grabbing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Grabbed">Grabbed</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Releasing">Releasing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Released">Released</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Placing">Placing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject_Placed">Placed</a></li></ul>&nbsp;
<a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor">UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor</a>:
&nbsp;<ul><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_Placing">Placing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_Placed">Placed</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_Removing">Removing</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_Removed">Removed</a></li><li><a href="E_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor_SmoothPlaceTransitionEnded">SmoothPlaceTransitionEnded</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>![Public class](media/pubclass.gif "Public class")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrManipulationSyncEventArgs">UxrManipulationSyncEventArgs</a></td><td>
Describes an event raised by the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager">UxrGrabManager</a> that can also be played back. This facilitates the manipulation synchronization through network.</td></tr></table>

## Interfaces
&nbsp;<table><tr><th></th><th>Interface</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>![Public interface](media/pubinterface.gif "Public interface")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_IUxrGrabbable">IUxrGrabbable</a></td><td>
Interface for all objects that can be grabbed/manipulated using the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabManager">UxrGrabManager</a>.</td></tr></table>

## Enumerations
&nbsp;<table><tr><th></th><th>Enumeration</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabMode">UxrGrabMode</a></td><td>
What controller input we need to grab and release.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabProximityMode">UxrGrabProximityMode</a></td><td>
Enumerates how the distance from a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a> to a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> can be computed.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrHandSnapDirection">UxrHandSnapDirection</a></td><td>
Enumerates the different ways snapping can be handled when grabbing an object. For constrained objects, this will always be hand to the object</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrManipulationSyncEventType">UxrManipulationSyncEventType</a></td><td>
Enumerates the different events that can be synced for networking using <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrManipulationSyncEventArgs">UxrManipulationSyncEventArgs</a> .</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrPlacementType">UxrPlacementType</a></td><td>
Enumerates the different ways a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> can transition when being placed on an <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor">UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor</a>.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrPreviewGrabPoses">UxrPreviewGrabPoses</a></td><td>
Flags enumerating the different modes that can be used to preview the grab poses in the editor while an <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> is selected.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrRotationConstraintMode">UxrRotationConstraintMode</a></td><td>
Enumerates the ways a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> rotation can be constrained when being manipulated.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrRotationProvider">UxrRotationProvider</a></td><td>
Enumerates the different ways a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> with rotation constraints can be rotated while being manipulated.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrSnapReference">UxrSnapReference</a></td><td>
Enumerates which transforms can be used to align a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> to a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a></td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrSnapToAnchorMode">UxrSnapToAnchorMode</a></td><td>
Enumerates how a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> can snap to a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor">UxrGrabbableObjectAnchor</a> when being placed on it.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrSnapToHandMode">UxrSnapToHandMode</a></td><td>
Enumerates the ways a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> can snap to a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabber">UxrGrabber</a>.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public enumeration](media/pubenumeration.gif "Public enumeration")</td><td><a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrTranslationConstraintMode">UxrTranslationConstraintMode</a></td><td>
Enumerates the ways a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Manipulation_UxrGrabbableObject">UxrGrabbableObject</a> position can be constrained when being manipulated.</td></tr></table>&nbsp;
