content/api/Properties_T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase.md, before:

# UxrTeleportLocomotionBase Properties
 

The <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase">UxrTeleportLocomotionBase</a> type exposes the following members.


## Properties
&nbsp;<table><tr><th></th><th>Name</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_BlockingTargetLayers">BlockingTargetLayers</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the layers which should be considered when ray-casting looking for either valid or invalid teleportation surfaces.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_CanBackStep">CanBackStep</a></td><td>
Gets whether the avatar can currently receive input to step backwards.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_CanRotate">CanRotate</a></td><td>
Gets whether the avatar can currently receive input to rotate around.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ControllerForward">ControllerForward</a></td><td>
Gets the smoothed direction of ray-casting when starts on the controller.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ControllerStart">ControllerStart</a></td><td>
Gets the smoothed source of ray-casting when it starts on the controller.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_DestinationValidationRadius">DestinationValidationRadius</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the radius of a cylinder used when validating if a teleport destination is valid.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_FadeRotationColor">FadeRotationColor</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the fade color when using <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrRotationType">Fade</a> translation teleporting.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_FadeRotationSeconds">FadeRotationSeconds</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the transition duration in seconds for the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrRotationType">Fade</a> rotation type.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_FadeTranslationColor">FadeTranslationColor</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the fade color when using <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTranslationType">Fade</a> translation teleporting.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_FadeTranslationSeconds">FadeTranslationSeconds</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the transition duration in seconds for the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTranslationType">Fade</a> translation type.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_HandSide">HandSide</a></td><td>
Gets the hand used to control the teleport component.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_InvalidMaterialColorTargets">InvalidMaterialColorTargets</a></td><td>
When <a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ShowTargetAlsoWhenInvalid">ShowTargetAlsoWhenInvalid</a> is true, sets the teleport target color used when the destination is invalid.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_IsAllowedToTeleport">IsAllowedToTeleport</a></td><td>
Gets whether the component is currently allowed to teleport the avatar.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_IsOtherComponentTeleporting">IsOtherComponentTeleporting</a></td><td>
Gets whether other teleport component is currently teleporting the avatar.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_IsTeleporting">IsTeleporting</a></td><td>
Gets or sets whether the component is currently teleporting the avatar.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_LayerMaskRaycast">LayerMaskRaycast</a></td><td>
Gets the LayerMask used for ray-casting either valid or invalid teleport destinations.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_MaxAllowedDistance">MaxAllowedDistance</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the maximum teleport distance.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_MaxAllowedHeightDifference">MaxAllowedHeightDifference</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the maximum height difference allowed from the current position to a destination.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_MaxAllowedSlopeDegrees">MaxAllowedSlopeDegrees</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the maximum slop for a destination to be considered valid.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_PrecachedInstances">PrecachedInstances</a></td><td>
Gets the GameObjects, usually prefabs, that will be precached when the scene is loaded.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ReorientationType">ReorientationType</a></td><td>
Gets or sets how the teleport target direction is set.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_RotationStepDegrees">RotationStepDegrees</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the amount of degrees rotated around the avatar axis when the user presses the left or right joystick buttons.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_RotationType">RotationType</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the teleport rotation type.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ShowTargetAlsoWhenInvalid">ShowTargetAlsoWhenInvalid</a></td><td>
Gets or sets whether the target should also be visible when the teleport destination is not valid.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_SmoothRotationSeconds">SmoothRotationSeconds</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the transition duration in seconds for the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrRotationType">Smooth</a> rotation type.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_SmoothTranslationSeconds">SmoothTranslationSeconds</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the transition duration in seconds for the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTranslationType">Smooth</a> translation type.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_Target">Target</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the target object.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TargetPlacementAboveHit">TargetPlacementAboveHit</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the distance above the ground the target is positioned.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TeleportDirection">TeleportDirection</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the current teleport direction.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TeleportPosition">TeleportPosition</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the current teleport destination.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TranslationType">TranslationType</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the teleport translation type.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TriggerCollidersInteraction">TriggerCollidersInteraction</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the behaviour for raycasts against trigger volumes.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ValidMaterialColorTargets">ValidMaterialColorTargets</a></td><td>
When <a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ShowTargetAlsoWhenInvalid">ShowTargetAlsoWhenInvalid</a> is true, sets the teleport target color used when the destination is valid.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ValidTargetLayers">ValidTargetLayers</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the layers over which teleportation is allowed.</td></tr></table>&nbsp;
<a href="#uxrteleportlocomotionbase-properties">Back to Top</a>

## See Also


#### Reference
<a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase">UxrTeleportLocomotionBase Class</a><br /><a href="N_UltimateXR_Locomotion">UltimateXR.Locomotion Namespace</a><br />

Commit message:

Update API documentation with 0.9.1 files

content/api/Properties_T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase.md, after:

# UxrTeleportLocomotionBase Properties
 

The <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase">UxrTeleportLocomotionBase</a> type exposes the following members.


## Properties
&nbsp;<table><tr><th></th><th>Name</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_BlockingTargetLayers">BlockingTargetLayers</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the layers which should be considered when ray-casting looking for either valid or invalid teleportation surfaces.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_CanBackStep">CanBackStep</a></td><td>
Gets whether the avatar can currently receive input to step backwards.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_CanRotate">CanRotate</a></td><td>
Gets whether the avatar can currently receive input to rotate around.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ControllerForward">ControllerForward</a></td><td>
Gets the smoothed direction of ray-casting when starts on the controller.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ControllerStart">ControllerStart</a></td><td>
Gets the smoothed source of ray-casting when it starts on the controller.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_DestinationValidationRadius">DestinationValidationRadius</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the radius of a cylinder used when validating if a teleport destination is valid.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_FadeRotationColor">FadeRotationColor</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the fade color when using <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrRotationType">Fade</a> translation teleporting.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_FadeRotationSeconds">FadeRotationSeconds</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the transition duration in seconds for the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrRotationType">Fade</a> rotation type.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_FadeTranslationColor">FadeTranslationColor</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the fade color when using <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTranslationType">Fade</a> translation teleporting.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_FadeTranslationSeconds">FadeTranslationSeconds</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the transition duration in seconds for the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTranslationType">Fade</a> translation type.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_HandSide">HandSide</a></td><td>
Gets the hand used to control the teleport component.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_InvalidMaterialColorTargets">InvalidMaterialColorTargets</a></td><td>
When <a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ShowTargetAlsoWhenInvalid">ShowTargetAlsoWhenInvalid</a> is true, sets the teleport target color used when the destination is invalid.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_IsAllowedToTeleport">IsAllowedToTeleport</a></td><td>
Gets whether the component is currently allowed to teleport the avatar.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_IsOtherComponentTeleporting">IsOtherComponentTeleporting</a></td><td>
Gets whether other teleport component is currently teleporting the avatar.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_IsTeleporting">IsTeleporting</a></td><td>
Gets or sets whether the component is currently teleporting the avatar.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_LayerMaskRaycast">LayerMaskRaycast</a></td><td>
Gets the LayerMask used for ray-casting either valid or invalid teleport destinations.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_MaxAllowedDistance">MaxAllowedDistance</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the maximum teleport distance.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_MaxAllowedHeightDifference">MaxAllowedHeightDifference</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the maximum height difference allowed from the current position to a destination.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_MaxAllowedSlopeDegrees">MaxAllowedSlopeDegrees</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the maximum slop for a destination to be considered valid.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ParentToDestination">ParentToDestination</a></td><td>
Gets or sets whether to parent the avatar to the destination object (<a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TeleportReference">TeleportReference</a>) after teleporting. This can also be overriden using a <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrParentAvatarDestination">UxrParentAvatarDestination</a> component.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_PrecachedInstances">PrecachedInstances</a></td><td>
Gets the GameObjects, usually prefabs, that will be precached when the scene is loaded.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ReorientationType">ReorientationType</a></td><td>
Gets or sets how the teleport target direction is set.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_RotationStepDegrees">RotationStepDegrees</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the amount of degrees rotated around the avatar axis when the user presses the left or right joystick buttons.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_RotationType">RotationType</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the teleport rotation type.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ShowTargetAlsoWhenInvalid">ShowTargetAlsoWhenInvalid</a></td><td>
Gets or sets whether the target should also be visible when the teleport destination is not valid.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_SmoothRotationSeconds">SmoothRotationSeconds</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the transition duration in seconds for the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrRotationType">Smooth</a> rotation type.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_SmoothTranslationSeconds">SmoothTranslationSeconds</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the transition duration in seconds for the <a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTranslationType">Smooth</a> translation type.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_Target">Target</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the target object.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TargetPlacementAboveHit">TargetPlacementAboveHit</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the distance above the ground the target is positioned.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TeleportLocalDirection">TeleportLocalDirection</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the current teleport direction in in <a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TeleportReference">TeleportReference</a> space. If <a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TeleportReference">TeleportReference</a> is null, it will be considered as world-space rotation.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TeleportLocalPosition">TeleportLocalPosition</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the current teleport destination in <a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TeleportReference">TeleportReference</a> space. If <a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TeleportReference">TeleportReference</a> is null, it will be considered as world-space position.</td></tr><tr><td>![Protected property](media/protproperty.gif "Protected property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TeleportReference">TeleportReference</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the transform that will be used as reference for [!:TeleportPosition] and [!:TeleportDirection] to keep the relative positioning/orientation to while performing potential transitions, such as fades, before the actual teleporting. It is usually assigned the transform of the object that was hit with the destination raycast. The reference transform is used to make teleport transitions work correctly when the avatar is on a moving object. Without it, using absolute position and rotation only, would spawn the avatar with an incorrect offset due to the delay the transition introduces before the teleport.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TranslationType">TranslationType</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the teleport translation type.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_TriggerCollidersInteraction">TriggerCollidersInteraction</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the behaviour for raycasts against trigger volumes.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ValidMaterialColorTargets">ValidMaterialColorTargets</a></td><td>
When <a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ShowTargetAlsoWhenInvalid">ShowTargetAlsoWhenInvalid</a> is true, sets the teleport target color used when the destination is valid.</td></tr><tr><td>![Public property](media/pubproperty.gif "Public property")</td><td><a href="P_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase_ValidTargetLayers">ValidTargetLayers</a></td><td>
Gets or sets the layers over which teleportation is allowed.</td></tr></table>&nbsp;
<a href="#uxrteleportlocomotionbase-properties">Back to Top</a>

## See Also


#### Reference
<a href="T_UltimateXR_Locomotion_UxrTeleportLocomotionBase">UxrTeleportLocomotionBase Class</a><br /><a href="N_UltimateXR_Locomotion">UltimateXR.Locomotion Namespace</a><br />
