content/docs/programming-guide/input-tracking.md, before:

---
title: "Tracking"
---

# Tracking

## Overview

Each `UxrControllerInput` component has a corresponding `UxrControllerTracking` component that updates the controller positions and orientations in space each frame.

## Sensor

Positioning avatar hands accurately with controllers poses a significant challenge. The reported position and rotation of the controller **sensor** cannot be directly applied to the hands, as this would result in virtual hands being placed far from the user's actual hands, leading to a sense of disconnection.

{{% callout info %}}
The process described here is transparent to the user. It is detailed to provide a better understanding of how tracking support for multiple devices works.
{{% /callout %}}

The sensor represents the point on the controller that is the origin for its coordinates. At runtime, the XR platform reports the sensor positions and orientations for each controller.
UltimateXR positions the avatar's hands using the sensor data along with a predefined controller placement in the hand defined in the **HandsIntegration** prefab.

The HandsIntegration setup is done at edit-time and works as follows:
The HandsIntegration prefab is a special prefab in UltimateXR, added to all avatars. It includes `UxrControllerInput` and `UxrControllerTracking` components for all supported controllers, providing automatic device support.
The `UxrControllerTracking` components keep references to sensor GameObjects for the left and right controllers. These sensor GameObjects are carefully placed on virtual hand gizmos present in the HandsIntegration prefab.
During avatar setup, these virtual hands will be aligned to the avatar hands, including all the sensors in the process.

This ensures avatar hands stay aligned with real-world hands, regardless of the controller used, all seamlessly.

![](/docs/programming-guide/media/HandsIntegrationAlign.png)
**Image**: The aligned hand gizmo in HandsIntegration, colored in green.

## Properties

`UxrControllerTracking` exposes the following properties:

- `SensorLeftPos`: Gets the left controller sensor world position.
- `SensorRightPos`: Gets the right controller sensor world position.
- `SensorLeftRot`: Gets the world rotation of the left controller sensor
- `SensorRightRot`: Gets the world rotation of the right controller sensor

- `SensorLeftHandPos`: Gets the world position of the left avatar hand using the left sensor position.
- `SensorRightHandPos`: Gets the world position of the right avatar hand using the left sensor position.
- `SensorLeftHandRot`: Gets the world rotation of the left avatar hand using the left sensor rotation.
- `SensorRightHandRot`: Gets the world rotation of the right avatar hand using the right sensor rotation.

## Velocity and Averaging

Although `UxrControllerTracking` exposes tracking properties, they contain unprocessed data.

The `UxrGrabber` component has special functionality that can compute velocity. It averages values over multiple frames and takes into account the controller's position in the hand, resulting in improved behavior when throwing objects.
Consult the  [`UxrGrabber` programming guide](/docs/programming-guide/manipulation-uxrgrabber) for more information.

Commit message:

Add input-tracking component image

content/docs/programming-guide/input-tracking.md, after:

---
title: "Tracking"
---

# Tracking

## Overview

Each `UxrControllerInput` component has a corresponding `UxrControllerTracking` component that updates the controller positions and orientations in space each frame.

![](/docs/programming-guide/media/HandsIntegrationAlign.png)
**Image**: Example of input and tracking components, giving support for the Quest 3 controlleres.

## Sensor

Positioning avatar hands accurately with controllers poses a significant challenge. The reported position and rotation of the controller **sensor** cannot be directly applied to the hands, as this would result in virtual hands being placed far from the user's actual hands, leading to a sense of disconnection.

{{% callout info %}}
The process described here is transparent to the user. It is detailed to provide a better understanding of how tracking support for multiple devices works.
{{% /callout %}}

The sensor represents the point on the controller that is the origin for its coordinates. At runtime, the XR platform reports the sensor positions and orientations for each controller.
UltimateXR positions the avatar's hands using the sensor data along with a predefined controller placement in the hand defined in the **HandsIntegration** prefab.

The HandsIntegration setup is done at edit-time and works as follows:
The HandsIntegration prefab is a special prefab in UltimateXR, added to all avatars. It includes `UxrControllerInput` and `UxrControllerTracking` components for all supported controllers, providing automatic device support.
The `UxrControllerTracking` components keep references to sensor GameObjects for the left and right controllers. These sensor GameObjects are carefully placed on virtual hand gizmos present in the HandsIntegration prefab.
During avatar setup, these virtual hands will be aligned to the avatar hands, including all the sensors in the process.

This ensures avatar hands stay aligned with real-world hands, regardless of the controller used, all seamlessly.

![](/docs/programming-guide/media/HandsIntegrationAlign.png)
**Image**: The aligned hand gizmo in HandsIntegration, colored in green.

## Properties

`UxrControllerTracking` exposes the following properties:

- `SensorLeftPos`: Gets the left controller sensor world position.
- `SensorRightPos`: Gets the right controller sensor world position.
- `SensorLeftRot`: Gets the world rotation of the left controller sensor
- `SensorRightRot`: Gets the world rotation of the right controller sensor

- `SensorLeftHandPos`: Gets the world position of the left avatar hand using the left sensor position.
- `SensorRightHandPos`: Gets the world position of the right avatar hand using the left sensor position.
- `SensorLeftHandRot`: Gets the world rotation of the left avatar hand using the left sensor rotation.
- `SensorRightHandRot`: Gets the world rotation of the right avatar hand using the right sensor rotation.

## Velocity and Averaging

Although `UxrControllerTracking` exposes tracking properties, they contain unprocessed data.

The `UxrGrabber` component has special functionality that can compute velocity. It averages values over multiple frames and takes into account the controller's position in the hand, resulting in improved behavior when throwing objects.
Consult the  [`UxrGrabber` programming guide](/docs/programming-guide/manipulation-uxrgrabber) for more information.
