---
title: "Haptics"
---

# Haptics

Haptic impulses, in the context of VR controllers, refer to tactile feedback generated by the controller to simulate the sensation of touch or force feedback. These impulses are typically generated through small motors or actuators embedded within the controller, which produce vibrations or pulses that can be felt by the user. Haptic impulses are used to enhance immersion and provide users with physical feedback in virtual environments, such as when interacting with virtual objects.

## `UxrControllerInput`

The `UxrControllerInput` component, besides providing input capabilities, also provides haptics functionality.

### Haptic Impulse ###

The following methods sends a simple haptic signal to a controller:

```c#
void SendHapticFeedback(UxrHandSide   handSide,
                        float         frequency,
                        float         amplitude,
                        float         durationSeconds,
                        UxrHapticMode hapticMode)
```

Where `amplitude` is a value between 0.0 and 1.0. `frequency` will be used if the device supports haptic feedback with variable frequency.

{{% callout info %}}
Devices based on UnityXR will depend on the presence of `HapticCapabilities.supportsImpulse` on the underlying `InputDevice`.
{{% /callout %}}

The optional `hapticMode` parameter, on devices that support it, controls whether to replace any present haptic feedback, using `UxrHapticMode.Raplace`, or mix it, using `UxrHapticMode.Mix`. `UxrHapticMode.Mix` will be used when omitted.

`StopHapticFeedback()` will stop any haptic feedback on a given hand:

```c#
void StopHapticFeedback(UxrHandSide handSide)
```

### Haptic Clip ###

To facilitate haptic feedback, UltimateXR supports a set of predefined clips that can be used in common scenarios. These clips are defined in `UxrHapticClipType`:
- `RumbleFreqVeryLow`: A very low frequency rumble.
- `RumbleFreqLow`: A low frequency rumble.
- `RumbleFreqNormal`: A normal frequency rumble.
- `RumbleFreqHigh:`: A high frequency rumble.
- `RumbleFreqVeryHigh`: A very high frequency rumble.
- `Click`: A simple click.
- `Shot`: A shot.
- `ShotBig`: A more intense shot.
- `ShotBigger`: A very big shot.
- `Slide`: A slide.
- `Explosion`: An explosion.

These predefined clips can be sent using the following method:

```c#
void SendHapticFeedback(UxrHandSide       handSide,
                        UxrHapticClipType clipType,
                        float             amplitude,
                        float             durationSeconds,
                        UxrHapticMode     hapticMode)
```

The `amplitude` parameter provides additional adjustment of the clip intensity. `durationSeconds` is an optional parameter that is set to -1 by default. When set to a positive value, it will override the default playback duration.
`hapticMode`, like in the other methods, will tell whether to replace or mix the clip. If omitted, the clip will be mixed.
									   
### UxrHapticClip ###

```c#
void SendHapticFeedback(UxrHandSide handSide, UxrHapticClip hapticClip)
```
												
## Manipulation haptics

```c#
void SendGrabbableHapticFeedback(UxrGrabbableObject grabbableObject,
                                 UxrHapticClipType  clipType,
                                 float              amplitude       = DefaultHapticAmplitude,
                                 float              durationSeconds = -1.0f,
                                 UxrHapticMode      hapticMode      = UxrHapticMode.Mix)
```

```c#
void SendGrabbableHapticFeedback(UxrGrabbableObject grabbableObject, UxrHapticClip hapticClip)
```

## Events ##

`GlobalHapticRequesting`
`HapticRequesting`